So what is object storage? Well, while
not technically a database, you can
definitely think of it as one. Think of
it as a database that's designed
specifically for large files. And these
large files are commonly referred to as
binary large objects or blobs. But in
reality, all that they are are things
like videos, photos, uh music files,
JSON files, large text files. And each
of these, if you were to actually open
your terminal and look at, for example,
a photo, what you would find is that
they're just large collections of bytes,
there's some oftent times in the order
of megabytes amount of bytes that need
to be stored somewhere. And that's where
object storage comes into play. Now, the
first question that usually pops into
somebody's mind when they're learning
about object storage for the first time
is why don't we just store this in a
quote unquote normal database? Well, the
answer is that normal databases, where
normal here means a relational or an
OOLTP database, they're built for these
small frequently changing records that
need rich queries and things like joins.
And so, they're not made to handle
large, mostly static files like the ones
that we looked at above. So, let me show
you with this example cuz I think that
this will be pretty illustrative.
Imagine that you're storing profile
photos right alongside all of the other
user information that's in your user
table. And so this might feel convenient
to you. You have users, you're storing
their roles, their names, all of these
different things, and then additionally
their profile image. But Postgress, we
can use as our example of a relational
database here, packs all of these rows
internally into 8 kilobyte pages. And so
if you were going to have a 4 megabyte
image like we have here, that's going to
span 500 whole pages. And now you might
be thinking to yourself, okay, Evan, but
why is that so bad? Why is having 500
pages for an image bad? Well, I want you
to imagine a simple query like this
where you just want to pull in the top
50 users. Well, even though you only
want a small piece of the data, having
these large images stored alongside all
of the user data is going to create a
ton of extra overhead. The database has
to manage and potentially access these
huge files, these many megabytes of
pages that we have now. And this is
going to impact things like performance,
increase memory pressure, slow down what
should be uh fast and simple queries.
But that's not the only problem. We also
need to consider replication as another
issue. When you replicate data across
multiple database servers for either
backups or scaling, that four megabyte
blob has to be copied to every single
replica with each write, which is going
to create a ton of lag and consume
massive bandwidth. Then there's the
notion of backups more specifically
where these 4 megabyte images are going
to be included in those maybe nightly
backups that you run. And so you're
going to turn then in a restoration
process which should only take maybe a
couple minutes into many long hours. And
so you can picture yourself, you're
working, you're up late, your database
has gone down, gone down, your users are
frustrated, and you're trying to restore
from a backup. But your backup is huge
because it's bloated with all of these
large static files. And so the
restoration of your database is going to
take many hours. So the bottom line here
is pretty straightforward. traditional
databases, these relational or OOLTP
databases, they choke on blobs both in
terms of performance and in terms of
cost. And so hopefully this has made it
really clear that instead of storing all
these directly in your traditional
database, this is where object storage
comes into play. You should be storing
them strictly speaking in your object or
blob storage. All right, now let's go
ahead and take a quick look at what's
happening under the hood of this diagram
for us. And I want to stress that this
is a obviously a severe
oversimplification. Um it's technically
accurate and incredibly useful I think
for for considering how this works but
it is of course simple. The key is that
all of your files are stored just on
these cheap storage nodes. This is
meaning that they are stored on disk in
servers in some racks in some data
warehouse somewhere. Now the question
becomes how do we know where our file
is? And so when a client wants to get or
view a file that's stored in object
storage the first thing that they're
going to do is that they're going to
make a request to a metadata service.
And this metadata service which is part
of blob storage is part of object
storage is responsible for using an
index to look up where that file is
located. And so in our case it's located
on server A. We want to know where file
one is. The metadata service will say oh
server A holds file one. Now in reality
file one is actually on multiple
servers. This is important for
redundancy which we'll talk about in a
second. But at least one copy of file
one exists in server A. And so that's
what we're going to do here. Now, server
A's responsibility then is to stream
this file, those bytes of this file back
to the client. And this might be via a
pre-signed URL or via the gateway. But
in either case, we're going to stream
directly from the server right back uh
to the user. It's really that
straightforward. It's a simple lookup,
right? A connection and then a stream of
the file back to the user. But the
important bit is what makes this so
cheap and durable in the first place?
And there's three things that I want to
call out. The first is these flat name
spaces. And so unlike your your local
machines where you have to navigate
through these these folder trees to find
your files, object storage uses just a
flat structure. And so you might be
thinking to yourself, wait a minute,
I've used S3 and there's buckets and
there's kind of these folder slash
patterns. That's all just UI sugar in
order to make it easier for us as humans
to use. In reality, under the hood, it's
just storing that single string, which
allows us to directly locate the file by
name, uh, making it incredibly fast to
look up. We don't have to navigate a
tree. The second thing is is these
immutable rights. And so, unlike
databases where you're constantly
updating records, uh, in this case, you
can't modify files in object storage.
You can't change bytes in the middle of
the file. You can only create new
versions, which is really common, or
overwrite the file entirely. And so this
is important because it eliminates the
needs within the the database engine for
locks and race conditions which is going
to make things a lot simpler, faster,
and ultimately cheaper. And then the
last one to call out here is redundancy.
And so I talked about how file one in
our case doesn't only exist on server A,
right? It might also exist on server B
or server C. And the reality is that
every single object, every single file
is either fully replicated or something
called eraser coded across multiple
different servers, multiple different
racks, oftentimes even across multiple
different data centers in cases. And we
this is in order to achieve what we call
in the industry as 11 9 of durability.
And so it means that this is durable
99.999999 for 11 total 9. uh
99.999 whatever percent durability. If
you lose one node, no big deal. The data
is still there. We can go fetch it from
another node automatically and heal up
in the background. That ultimately is
the short and sweet of the high level
here. So, let's keep moving and let's
zone in on three things in particular
that I think are really important to
know in the context of your system
design interview. And so, the first one
might seem really obvious to you at this
point. It's that large files should be
stored in object storage, but your
metadata should be stored in your
traditional database. Like I said, this
might seem obvious, but you'd be
surprised. I've had quite a few junior
candidates or me mid-level candidates in
interviews keeping their metadata also
in object storage. Um, strictly
speaking, this isn't um, you know,
impossible, but it's against the
industry standard for for a number of
reasons that I'm not going to go into
here. You want the ability to quickly
query for your metadata and then pull in
those larger files just from object
storage. So a really simple example here
would be imagine you have a social media
site. You have posts on that social
media site. A user creates a post and
that post has an ID, a creator, and some
text. Think of it like Twitter. And so
we're going to store all of that in our
database along with the link, the URL um
to our file, the photo that's on this
post, which is stored in object storage.
And so the client makes a request. We
return all this metadata and then they
can get that directly from the client.
Talk more about that in a second. And so
some examples here, photos, videos like
I just mentioned for a messaging or a
social app. Um user uploading files for
collaborative tools like a design
Dropbox. You're going to store those
files in object storage where the files
metadata will be in the database. We
also store static assets like um CSS and
JavaScript that are needed in order to
render our website. This gets stored in
object storage. it ends up being fronted
by a CDN as well, but don't worry too
much about that if that's confusing. Uh,
we store logs, log files, output log
files from our application in S3 machine
learning training data. This is a
popular one nowadays. So, tons of text
that you're going to use to train an
LLM. Perfect thing to store in object
storage.
Now, the second one here, and I kind of
alluded to it, I got ahead of myself a
little bit, is that you can actually
upload and download directly from S3 via
what are called pre-signed URLs. And so,
at least in the upload case, if you want
to upload a file, you might think, I'm
going to upload that file to my server,
and then my server, which has the
correct permissions, is going to upload
directly to object storage. But the
downside of that is that you're using
extra bandwidth. You have to go through
your server first and then go to object
store. And if your server um you know
isn't particularly well scaled, it might
not be able to handle incredibly large
files, especially if there's an influx
of them. It's wasteful. And so what
typically happens in the industry is
that you're going to have your server
request from your object store what's
called a pre-signed URL. And this is
just going to be a URL that your client
can use to put HTTP put basically to
upload that file directly to the object
store. So we're going to ask permission.
We're going to say, I want to upload a
file of this size, of this type. Can you
give me a URL that's available for the
next 30 minutes or an hour or so that I
can give it to the client and they have
permission to upload directly to you.
This way, the client gets a direct line
to object store and we don't have to
waste the bandwidth going through here.
The same story on downloads. So on
downloads, we can get the S3 URL.
Whether it's signed or not depends on
your permissions, but in any case, you
can just download or stream that file
directly from object store as opposed to
having to go through your server. This
comes up a lot in system design
interviews. And then the third one here
is that large files are going to be
uploaded in chunks and then we can
stitch them back together. And so this
is something that's called multi-art
upload. Traditionally, at least S3 calls
it this. But the important thing to note
here is that there's limitations on the
size of a file that can be posted on the
internet, right? An HTTP post or put.
And this is limitations sometimes in the
browser, in gateways, in the servers
themselves, they exist all over. Um, in
S3's case, the most popular object
storage, which we'll talk about here in
a second, their limit is 5 megabytes, I
believe. Don't quote me on that. I'm
sure folks in the comments will tell me
if I made a mistake there, but about 5
megabytes. And so what that means is
that if we wanted to upload a, you know,
10 gigabyte file, even a 1 gigabyte
file, we're going to have to chunk it
into these 5 megabyte chunks and then
upload each of those chunks. It could be
in parallel, they could be sequentially,
but the client's going to take the file,
chunk it into a bunch of different
chunks, upload each of those chunks to
the object store, and then our object
storage is going to stitch those chunks
together back into a full file once it
has everything. And this is called
multi-art upload again.
Now, maybe the last thing to show here,
what are some examples of popular object
or blob stores that exist in the
industry? By far, these are the three
main ones. Amazon S3, this is the most
popular in your interview. If you've
never worked with any of these, go with
S3. If you want to learn a little bit
about one of them, S3 is the most
popular. That's the one you should look
into. But, of course, Google Cloud has
their own. Google Cloud Storage, uh,
Microsoft Azure has Azure Blob Storage.
They all work very similarly. They all
have these notions of pre-signed URLs,
signed URLs for downloading. They all
have multi-art upload. So, good things
to
know. Awesome. Okay. Um, tried to make
that quick. It's a highle overview. This
is the quick nitty-gritty of what you
need to know for your system design
interviews. Hopefully, this was useful.
If you enjoyed this, we have a lot more
content like this that is high level, as
well as tons of content that goes really
deep on specific technologies and
specific system designs over at
hellin.com. If you haven't been over
there, check it out. The overwhelming
majority of the content is free and I
think you'll really enjoy it. Thanks for
watching and best of luck with your
upcoming interviews. Till next time.